website/docs/commands/state/mv.html.md, before:

---
layout: "commands-state"
page_title: "Command: state mv"
sidebar_current: "docs-commands-state-sub-mv"
description: |-
  The `terraform state mv` command moves items in the Terraform state.
---

# Command: state mv

The `terraform state mv` command is used to move items in a
[Terraform state](/docs/state/index.html). This command can move
single resources, single instances of a resource, entire modules, and more.
This command can also move items to a completely different state file,
enabling efficient refactoring.

## Usage

Usage: `terraform state mv [options] SOURCE DESTINATION`

This command will move an item matched by the address given to the
destination address. This command can also move to a destination address
in a completely different state file.

This can be used for simple resource renaming, moving items to and from
a module, moving entire modules, and more. And because this command can also
move data to a completely new state, it can also be used for refactoring
one configuration into multiple separately managed Terraform configurations.

This command will output a backup copy of the state prior to saving any
changes. The backup cannot be disabled. Due to the destructive nature
of this command, backups are required.

If you're moving an item to a different state file, a backup will be created
for each state file.

This command requires a source and destination address of the item to move.
Addresses are
in [resource addressing format](/docs/commands/state/addressing.html).

The command-line flags are all optional. The list of available flags are:

* `-backup=path` - Path where Terraform should write the backup for the
  original state. This can't be disabled. If not set, Terraform will write it
  to the same path as the statefile with a ".backup" extension.

* `-backup-out=path` - Path where Terraform should write the backup for the
  destination state. This can't be disabled. If not set, Terraform will write
  it to the same path as the destination state file with a backup extension.
  This only needs to be specified if -state-out is set to a different path than
  -state.

* `-state=path` - Path to the source state file to read from. Defaults to the
  configured backend, or "terraform.tfstate".

* `-state-out=path` - Path to the destination state file to write to. If this
  isn't specified the source state file will be used. This can be a new or
  existing path.

## Example: Rename a Resource

The example below renames the `packet_device` resource named `worker` to `helper`:

```shell
$ terraform state mv 'packet_device.worker' 'packet_device.helper'
```

## Example: Move a Resource Into a Module

The example below moves the `packet_device` resource named `worker` into a module
named `app`. The module will be created if it doesn't exist.

```shell
$ terraform state mv 'packet_device.worker' 'module.app'
```

## Example: Move a Module Into a Module

The example below moves the module named `app` under the module named `parent`.

```shell
$ terraform state mv 'module.app' 'module.parent.module.app'
```

## Example: Move a Module to Another State

The example below moves the module named `app` into another state file. This removes
the module from the original state file and adds it to the destination.
The source and destination are the same meaning we're keeping the same name.

```shell
$ terraform state mv -state-out=other.tfstate 'module.app' 'module.app'
```

## Example: Move a Resource using count

The example below moves the first instance of a `packet_device` resource named `worker` using
[`count`](/docs/configuration/resources.html#count-multiple-resource-instances-by-count) to
the first instance of a resource named `helper` also using `count`:

```shell
$ terraform state mv 'packet_device.worker[0]' 'packet_device.helper[0]'
```

## Example: Move a Resource using for_each

The example below moves the `"example123"` instance of a `packet_device` resource named `worker` using
[`for_each`](/docs/configuration/resources.html#for_each-multiple-resource-instances-defined-by-a-map-or-set-of-strings)
to the `"example456"` instance of a resource named `helper` also using `for_each`:

Linux, Mac OS, and UNIX:

```shell
$ terraform state mv 'packet_device.worker["example123"]' 'packet_device.helper["example456"]'
```

PowerShell:

```shell
$ terraform state mv 'packet_device.worker[\"example123\"]' 'packet_device.helper[\"example456\"]'
```

Windows `cmd.exe`:

```shell
$ terraform state mv packet_device.worker[\"example123\"] packet_device.helper[\"example456\"]
```

Commit message:

docs/commands: Switch using count/for_each to configured with count/for_each
Reference: https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/pull/22318#discussion_r310587243

website/docs/commands/state/mv.html.md, after:

---
layout: "commands-state"
page_title: "Command: state mv"
sidebar_current: "docs-commands-state-sub-mv"
description: |-
  The `terraform state mv` command moves items in the Terraform state.
---

# Command: state mv

The `terraform state mv` command is used to move items in a
[Terraform state](/docs/state/index.html). This command can move
single resources, single instances of a resource, entire modules, and more.
This command can also move items to a completely different state file,
enabling efficient refactoring.

## Usage

Usage: `terraform state mv [options] SOURCE DESTINATION`

This command will move an item matched by the address given to the
destination address. This command can also move to a destination address
in a completely different state file.

This can be used for simple resource renaming, moving items to and from
a module, moving entire modules, and more. And because this command can also
move data to a completely new state, it can also be used for refactoring
one configuration into multiple separately managed Terraform configurations.

This command will output a backup copy of the state prior to saving any
changes. The backup cannot be disabled. Due to the destructive nature
of this command, backups are required.

If you're moving an item to a different state file, a backup will be created
for each state file.

This command requires a source and destination address of the item to move.
Addresses are
in [resource addressing format](/docs/commands/state/addressing.html).

The command-line flags are all optional. The list of available flags are:

* `-backup=path` - Path where Terraform should write the backup for the
  original state. This can't be disabled. If not set, Terraform will write it
  to the same path as the statefile with a ".backup" extension.

* `-backup-out=path` - Path where Terraform should write the backup for the
  destination state. This can't be disabled. If not set, Terraform will write
  it to the same path as the destination state file with a backup extension.
  This only needs to be specified if -state-out is set to a different path than
  -state.

* `-state=path` - Path to the source state file to read from. Defaults to the
  configured backend, or "terraform.tfstate".

* `-state-out=path` - Path to the destination state file to write to. If this
  isn't specified the source state file will be used. This can be a new or
  existing path.

## Example: Rename a Resource

The example below renames the `packet_device` resource named `worker` to `helper`:

```shell
$ terraform state mv 'packet_device.worker' 'packet_device.helper'
```

## Example: Move a Resource Into a Module

The example below moves the `packet_device` resource named `worker` into a module
named `app`. The module will be created if it doesn't exist.

```shell
$ terraform state mv 'packet_device.worker' 'module.app'
```

## Example: Move a Module Into a Module

The example below moves the module named `app` under the module named `parent`.

```shell
$ terraform state mv 'module.app' 'module.parent.module.app'
```

## Example: Move a Module to Another State

The example below moves the module named `app` into another state file. This removes
the module from the original state file and adds it to the destination.
The source and destination are the same meaning we're keeping the same name.

```shell
$ terraform state mv -state-out=other.tfstate 'module.app' 'module.app'
```

## Example: Move a Resource configured with count

The example below moves the first instance of a `packet_device` resource named `worker` configured with
[`count`](/docs/configuration/resources.html#count-multiple-resource-instances-by-count) to
the first instance of a resource named `helper` also configured with `count`:

```shell
$ terraform state mv 'packet_device.worker[0]' 'packet_device.helper[0]'
```

## Example: Move a Resource configured with for_each

The example below moves the `"example123"` instance of a `packet_device` resource named `worker` configured with
[`for_each`](/docs/configuration/resources.html#for_each-multiple-resource-instances-defined-by-a-map-or-set-of-strings)
to the `"example456"` instance of a resource named `helper` also configuring `for_each`:

Linux, Mac OS, and UNIX:

```shell
$ terraform state mv 'packet_device.worker["example123"]' 'packet_device.helper["example456"]'
```

PowerShell:

```shell
$ terraform state mv 'packet_device.worker[\"example123\"]' 'packet_device.helper[\"example456\"]'
```

Windows `cmd.exe`:

```shell
$ terraform state mv packet_device.worker[\"example123\"] packet_device.helper[\"example456\"]
```
