website/docs/backends/types/remote.html.md, before:

---
layout: "backend-types"
page_title: "Backend Type: remote"
sidebar_current: "docs-backends-types-enhanced-remote"
description: |-
  Terraform can store the state and run operations remotely, making it easier to version and work with in a team.
---

# remote

**Kind: Enhanced**

The remote backend stores state and runs operations remotely. When running
`terraform plan` or `terraform apply` with this backend, the actual execution
occurs in Terraform Enterprise, with log output streaming to the local terminal.

To use this backend you need a Terraform Enterprise account on
[app.terraform.io](https://app.terraform.io) or have a private instance of
Terraform Enterprise (version v201809-1 or newer).

## Command Support

Currently the remote backend supports the following Terraform commands:

- `apply`
- `console`
- `destroy` (requires manually setting `CONFIRM_DESTROY=1` on the workspace)
- `fmt`
- `get`
- `graph`
- `import`
- `init`
- `output`
- `plan`
- `providers`
- `show`
- `taint`
- `untaint`
- `validate`
- `version`
- `workspace`

## Workspaces

The remote backend can work with either a single remote workspace, or with
multiple similarly-named remote workspaces (like `networking-dev` and
`networking-prod`). The `workspaces` block of the backend configuration
determines which mode it uses:

- To use a single workspace, set `workspaces.name` to the remote workspace's
  full name (like `networking`).

- To use multiple workspaces, set `workspaces.prefix` to a prefix used in
  all of the desired remote workspace names. For example, set
  `prefix = "networking-"` to use a group of workspaces with names like
  `networking-dev` and `networking-prod`.

  When interacting with workspaces on the command line, Terraform uses
  shortened names without the common prefix. For example, if
  `prefix = "networking-"`, use `terraform workspace select prod` to switch to
  the `networking-prod` workspace.

The backend configuration requires either `name` or `prefix`. Omitting both or
setting both results in a configuration error.

If previous state is present when you run `terraform init` and the corresponding
remote workspaces are empty or absent, Terraform will create workspaces and/or
update the remote state accordingly.

## Example Configuration

```hcl
# Using a single workspace:
terraform {
  backend "remote" {
    hostname = "app.terraform.io"
    organization = "company"

    workspaces {
      name = "my-app-prod"
    }
  }
}

# Using multiple workspaces:
terraform {
  backend "remote" {
    hostname = "app.terraform.io"
    organization = "company"

    workspaces {
      prefix = "my-app-"
    }
  }
}
```

## Example Reference

```hcl
data "terraform_remote_state" "foo" {
  backend = "remote"

  config = {
    organization = "company"

    workspaces {
      name = "workspace"
    }
  }
}
```

## Configuration variables

The following configuration options are supported:

* `hostname` - (Optional) The remote backend hostname to connect to. Defaults
  to app.terraform.io.
* `organization` - (Required) The name of the organization containing the
  targeted workspace(s).
* `token` - (Optional) The token used to authenticate with the remote backend.
  We recommend omitting the token from the configuration, and instead setting it
  as `credentials` in the
  [CLI config file](/docs/commands/cli-config.html#credentials).
* `workspaces` - (Required) A block specifying which remote workspace(s) to use.
  The `workspaces` block supports the following keys:

  * `name` - (Optional) The full name of one remote workspace. When configured,
    only the default workspace can be used. This option conflicts with `prefix`.
  * `prefix` - (Optional) A prefix used in the names of one or more remote
    workspaces, all of which can be used with this configuration. The full
    workspace names are used in Terraform Enterprise, and the short names
    (minus the prefix) are used on the command line. If omitted, only the
    default workspace can be used. This option conflicts with `name`.

Commit message:

website: clarify behavior and version support for remote backend (#20739)
* docs: elaborate on supported remote backend versions

This PR adds a few lines to the docs to indicate which commands are
supported by what version of the remote backend and it makes a
recommendation about which version to use.

* Clarify remote state storage w/ TFE [skip ci]

Specifically, that this is the backend to use with remote state (all
tiers) and Free-Tier vs. Enterprise tiers differ in remote operations

* website: Arrange remote backend info differently

website/docs/backends/types/remote.html.md, after:

---
layout: "backend-types"
page_title: "Backend Type: remote"
sidebar_current: "docs-backends-types-enhanced-remote"
description: |-
  Terraform can store the state and run operations remotely, making it easier to version and work with in a team.
---

# remote

**Kind: Enhanced**

-> **Note:** We recommend using Terraform v0.11.13 or newer with this
backend. This backend requires either a Terraform Enterprise account on
[app.terraform.io](https://app.terraform.io) or a private instance of
Terraform Enterprise (version v201809-1 or newer).

The remote backend stores state and runs operations in Terraform Enterprise.

When used with a Pro or Premium tier Terraform Enterprise account, operations
like `terraform plan` or `terraform apply` are executed in Terraform
Enterprise's run environment, with log output streaming to the local terminal.
Remote plans and applies use variable values from the associated Terraform
Enterprise workspace.

When used with a free Terraform Enterprise account, operations are executed on
the local machine and state is stored in Terraform Enterprise.

## Command Support

Currently the remote backend supports the following Terraform commands:

- `apply`
- `console` (supported in Terraform >= v0.11.12)
- `destroy` (requires manually setting `CONFIRM_DESTROY=1` on the workspace)
- `fmt`
- `get`
- `graph` (supported in Terraform >= v0.11.12)
- `import` (supported in Terraform >= v0.11.12)
- `init`
- `output`
- `plan`
- `providers`
- `show`
- `taint`
- `untaint`
- `validate`
- `version`
- `workspace`

## Workspaces

The remote backend can work with either a single remote workspace, or with
multiple similarly-named remote workspaces (like `networking-dev` and
`networking-prod`). The `workspaces` block of the backend configuration
determines which mode it uses:

- To use a single workspace, set `workspaces.name` to the remote workspace's
  full name (like `networking`).

- To use multiple workspaces, set `workspaces.prefix` to a prefix used in
  all of the desired remote workspace names. For example, set
  `prefix = "networking-"` to use a group of workspaces with names like
  `networking-dev` and `networking-prod`.

  When interacting with workspaces on the command line, Terraform uses
  shortened names without the common prefix. For example, if
  `prefix = "networking-"`, use `terraform workspace select prod` to switch to
  the `networking-prod` workspace.

The backend configuration requires either `name` or `prefix`. Omitting both or
setting both results in a configuration error.

If previous state is present when you run `terraform init` and the corresponding
remote workspaces are empty or absent, Terraform will create workspaces and/or
update the remote state accordingly.

## Example Configuration

```hcl
# Using a single workspace:
terraform {
  backend "remote" {
    hostname = "app.terraform.io"
    organization = "company"

    workspaces {
      name = "my-app-prod"
    }
  }
}

# Using multiple workspaces:
terraform {
  backend "remote" {
    hostname = "app.terraform.io"
    organization = "company"

    workspaces {
      prefix = "my-app-"
    }
  }
}
```

## Example Reference

```hcl
data "terraform_remote_state" "foo" {
  backend = "remote"

  config = {
    organization = "company"

    workspaces {
      name = "workspace"
    }
  }
}
```

## Configuration variables

The following configuration options are supported:

* `hostname` - (Optional) The remote backend hostname to connect to. Defaults
  to app.terraform.io.
* `organization` - (Required) The name of the organization containing the
  targeted workspace(s).
* `token` - (Optional) The token used to authenticate with the remote backend.
  We recommend omitting the token from the configuration, and instead setting it
  as `credentials` in the
  [CLI config file](/docs/commands/cli-config.html#credentials).
* `workspaces` - (Required) A block specifying which remote workspace(s) to use.
  The `workspaces` block supports the following keys:

  * `name` - (Optional) The full name of one remote workspace. When configured,
    only the default workspace can be used. This option conflicts with `prefix`.
  * `prefix` - (Optional) A prefix used in the names of one or more remote
    workspaces, all of which can be used with this configuration. The full
    workspace names are used in Terraform Enterprise, and the short names
    (minus the prefix) are used on the command line. If omitted, only the
    default workspace can be used. This option conflicts with `name`.
