website/docs/backends/types/terraform-enterprise.html.md, before:

---
layout: "backend-types"
page_title: "Backend Type: terraform enterprise"
sidebar_current: "docs-backends-types-standard-terraform-enterprise"
description: |-
  Terraform can store the state in Terraform Enterprise
---

# terraform enterprise

**Kind: Standard (with no locking)**

Stores the state in [Terraform Enterprise](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/index.html).

You can create a new workspace in the
Workspaces section and generate new token in the Tokens page under Settings.

~> **Why is this called "atlas"?** Atlas was previously a commercial offering
from HashiCorp that included a full suite of enterprise products. The products
have since been broken apart into their individual products, like **Terraform
Enterprise**. While this transition is in progress, you may see references to
"atlas" in the documentation. We apologize for the inconvenience.

## Example Configuration

```hcl
terraform {
  backend "atlas" {
    name         = "bigbang/example"
  }
}
```

Note that for the access token we recommend using a
[partial configuration](/docs/backends/config.html).

## Example Referencing

```hcl
data "terraform_remote_state" "foo" {
  backend = "atlas"
  config {
    name         = "bigbang/example"
  }
}
```

## Configuration variables

The following configuration options / environment variables are supported:

 * `name` - (Required) Full name of the environment (`<username>/<name>`)
 * `ATLAS_TOKEN`/ `access_token`  - (Required) Terraform Enterprise API token. It is recommended that `ATLAS_TOKEN` is set as an environment variable rather than using `access_token` in the configuration.
 * `address` - (Optional) Address to alternative Terraform Enterprise location (Terraform Enterprise endpoint)

Commit message:

website: Revise "atlas" backend page
Add links to important docs (like user tokens), and explain that this isn't part
of our recommended primary workflows anymore.

website/docs/backends/types/terraform-enterprise.html.md, after:

---
layout: "backend-types"
page_title: "Backend Type: terraform enterprise"
sidebar_current: "docs-backends-types-standard-terraform-enterprise"
description: |-
  Terraform can store the state in Terraform Enterprise
---

# terraform enterprise

**Kind: Standard (with no locking)**

Reads and writes state from a [Terraform Enterprise](/docs/enterprise/index.html)
workspace.

-> **Why is this called "atlas"?** Before it was a standalone offering,
Terraform Enterprise was part of an integrated suite of enterprise products
called Atlas. This backend predates the current version Terraform Enterprise, so
it uses the old name.

This backend is useful for uncommon tasks like migrating state into a Terraform
Enterprise workspace, but we no longer recommend using it as part of your
day-to-day Terraform workflow. Since it performs runs outside of Terraform
Enterprise and updates state directly, it does not support Terraform
Enterprise's collaborative features like [workspace
locking](/docs/enterprise/run/index.html). To perform Terraform Enterprise runs
from the command line, use [Terraform Enterprise's CLI-driven
workflow](/docs/enterprise/run/cli.html) instead.

## Example Configuration

```hcl
terraform {
  backend "atlas" {
    name = "example_corp/networking-prod"
  }
}
```

We recommend using a [partial configuration](/docs/backends/config.html) and
omitting the access token, which can be provided as an environment variable.

## Example Referencing

```hcl
data "terraform_remote_state" "foo" {
  backend = "atlas"
  config {
    name = "example_corp/networking-prod"
  }
}
```

## Configuration variables

The following configuration options / environment variables are supported:

* `name` - (Required) Full name of the workspace (`<ORGANIZATION>/<WORKSPACE>`).
* `ATLAS_TOKEN`/ `access_token`  - (Required) A Terraform Enterprise [user API
  token](/docs/enterprise/users-teams-organizations/users.html#api-tokens). We
  recommend using the `ATLAS_TOKEN` environment variable rather than setting
  `access_token` in the configuration.
* `address` - (Optional) The hostname of a Terraform Enterprise instance.
  (Defaults to the SaaS version of Terraform Enterprise.)
