.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, before:

# PROVIDER ISSUES

**PLEASE NOTE:** Terraform has split out the builtin Providers into their own repositories. For any Provider issues, please open all issues and pull requests in the corresponding repository. An index of supported Providers can be found here:

- https://github.com/terraform-providers

All other issues (that appear to affect multiple or all providers) may be an issue with Terraform's core, and should be opened here. 

------

Hi there,

Thank you for opening an issue. Please note that we try to keep the Terraform issue tracker reserved for bug reports and feature requests. For general usage questions, please see: https://www.terraform.io/community.html.

### Terraform Version
Run `terraform -v` to show the version. If you are not running the latest version of Terraform, please upgrade because your issue may have already been fixed.

### Terraform Configuration Files
```hcl
# Copy-paste your Terraform configurations here - for large Terraform configs,
# please use a service like Dropbox and share a link to the ZIP file. For
# security, you can also encrypt the files using our GPG public key.
```

### Debug Output
Please provider a link to a GitHub Gist containing the complete debug output: https://www.terraform.io/docs/internals/debugging.html. Please do NOT paste the debug output in the issue; just paste a link to the Gist.

### Panic Output
If Terraform produced a panic, please provide a link to a GitHub Gist containing the output of the `crash.log`.

### Expected Behavior
What should have happened?

### Actual Behavior
What actually happened?

### Steps to Reproduce
Please list the steps required to reproduce the issue, for example:
1. `terraform apply`

### Important Factoids
Are there anything atypical about your accounts that we should know? For example: Running in EC2 Classic? Custom version of OpenStack? Tight ACLs?

### References
Are there any other GitHub issues (open or closed) or Pull Requests that should be linked here? For example:
- GH-1234

Commit message:

Revisions to ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md
This is just a few editorial tweaks to the issue template.

The primary motivation here was to shorten the section about provider issues now that we're no longer in the transitional state; I suspect that this scary wall of text is dissuading people from actually reading and following the template.

Otherwise, this is just some tweaks to the wording and some adjustments for the fact that we're now not expecting provider issues here.

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, after:

Hi there,

Thank you for opening an issue. Please note that we try to keep the Terraform issue tracker reserved for bug reports and feature requests. For general usage questions, please see: https://www.terraform.io/community.html.

If your issue relates to a specific Terraform provider, please open it in the provider's own repository. The index of providers is at https://github.com/terraform-providers .

### Terraform Version
Run `terraform -v` to show the version. If you are not running the latest version of Terraform, please try upgrading because your issue may have already been fixed.

### Terraform Configuration Files
```hcl
# Copy-paste your Terraform configurations here.
#
# For large Terraform configs, please use a service like Dropbox and
# share a link to the ZIP file. For security, you can also encrypt the
# files using our GPG public key.
```

### Debug Output
Full debug output can be obtained by running Terraform with the environment variable `TF_LOG=trace`. Please create a GitHub Gist containing the debug output. Please do _not_ paste the debug output in the issue, since debug output is long.

Debug output may contain sensitive information. Please review it before posting publicly, and if you are concerned feel free to encrypt the files using the HashiCorp security public key.

### Crash Output
If the console output indicates that Terraform crashed, please share a link to a GitHub Gist containing the output of the `crash.log` file.

### Expected Behavior
What should have happened?

### Actual Behavior
What actually happened?

### Steps to Reproduce
Please list the full steps required to reproduce the issue, for example:
1. `terraform init`
2. `terraform apply`

### Important Factoids
Are there anything atypical about your situation that we should know? For example: is Terraform running in a wrapper script or in a CI system? Are you passing any unusual command line options or environment variables to opt-in to non-default behavior?

### References
Are there any other GitHub issues (open or closed) or Pull Requests that should be linked here? For example:
- #6017
