website/docs/provisioners/file.html.markdown, before:

---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Provisioner: file"
sidebar_current: "docs-provisioners-file"
description: |-
  The `file` provisioner is used to copy files or directories from the machine executing Terraform to the newly created resource. The `file` provisioner supports both `ssh` and `winrm` type connections.
---

# File Provisioner

The `file` provisioner is used to copy files or directories from the machine
executing Terraform to the newly created resource. The `file` provisioner
supports both `ssh` and `winrm` type [connections](/docs/provisioners/connection.html).

## Example usage

```hcl
resource "aws_instance" "web" {
  # ...

  # Copies the myapp.conf file to /etc/myapp.conf
  provisioner "file" {
    source      = "conf/myapp.conf"
    destination = "/etc/myapp.conf"
  }

  # Copies the string in content into /tmp/file.log
  provisioner "file" {
    content     = "ami used: ${self.ami}"
    destination = "/tmp/file.log"
  }

  # Copies the configs.d folder to /etc/configs.d
  provisioner "file" {
    source      = "conf/configs.d"
    destination = "/etc"
  }

  # Copies all files and folders in apps/app1 to D:/IIS/webapp1
  provisioner "file" {
    source      = "apps/app1/"
    destination = "D:/IIS/webapp1"
  }
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `source` - This is the source file or folder. It can be specified as
  relative to the current working directory or as an absolute path. This
  attribute cannot be specified with `content`.

* `content` - This is the content to copy on the destination. If destination is a file,
  the content will be written on that file, in case of a directory a file named
  `tf-file-content` is created. It's recommended to use a file as the destination. A
  [`template_file`](/docs/providers/template/d/file.html) might be referenced in here, or
  any interpolation syntax. This attribute cannot be specified with `source`.

* `destination` - (Required) This is the destination path. It must be specified as an
  absolute path.

## Directory Uploads

The file provisioner is also able to upload a complete directory to the remote machine.
When uploading a directory, there are a few important things you should know.

First, when using the `ssh` connection type the destination directory must already exist.
If you need to create it, use a remote-exec provisioner just prior to the file provisioner
in order to create the directory. When using the `winrm` connection type the destination
directory will be created for you if it doesn't already exist.

Next, the existence of a trailing slash on the source path will determine whether the
directory name will be embedded within the destination, or whether the destination will
be created. An example explains this best:

If the source is `/foo` (no trailing slash), and the destination is `/tmp`, then the contents
of `/foo` on the local machine will be uploaded to `/tmp/foo` on the remote machine. The
`foo` directory on the remote machine will be created by Terraform.

If the source, however, is `/foo/` (a trailing slash is present), and the destination is
`/tmp`, then the contents of `/foo` will be uploaded directly into `/tmp`.

This behavior was adopted from the standard behavior of
[rsync](https://linux.die.net/man/1/rsync).

-> **Note:** Under the covers, rsync may or may not be used.

Commit message:

website: Warn against using provisioners
For a long time now we've been advising against the use of provisioners,
but our documentation for them is pretty prominent on the website in
comparision to the better alternatives, and so it's little surprise that
many users end up making significant use of them.

Although in the longer term a change to our information architecture would
probably address this even better, this is an attempt to be explicit about
the downsides of using provisioners and to prominently describe the
alternatives that are available for common use-cases, along with some
reasons why we consider them to be better.

I took the unusual step here of directly linking to specific provider
documentation pages about the alternatives, even though we normally try
to keep the core documentation provider-agnostic, because otherwise that
information tends to be rather buried in the provider documentation and
thus the reader would be reasonable to use provisioners just because we're
not giving specific enough alternative recommendations.

website/docs/provisioners/file.html.markdown, after:

---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Provisioner: file"
sidebar_current: "docs-provisioners-file"
description: |-
  The `file` provisioner is used to copy files or directories from the machine executing Terraform to the newly created resource. The `file` provisioner supports both `ssh` and `winrm` type connections.
---

# File Provisioner

The `file` provisioner is used to copy files or directories from the machine
executing Terraform to the newly created resource. The `file` provisioner
supports both `ssh` and `winrm` type [connections](/docs/provisioners/connection.html).

-> **Note:** Provisioners should only be used as a last resort. For most
common situations there are better alternatives. For more information, see
[the main Provisioners page](./).

## Example usage

```hcl
resource "aws_instance" "web" {
  # ...

  # Copies the myapp.conf file to /etc/myapp.conf
  provisioner "file" {
    source      = "conf/myapp.conf"
    destination = "/etc/myapp.conf"
  }

  # Copies the string in content into /tmp/file.log
  provisioner "file" {
    content     = "ami used: ${self.ami}"
    destination = "/tmp/file.log"
  }

  # Copies the configs.d folder to /etc/configs.d
  provisioner "file" {
    source      = "conf/configs.d"
    destination = "/etc"
  }

  # Copies all files and folders in apps/app1 to D:/IIS/webapp1
  provisioner "file" {
    source      = "apps/app1/"
    destination = "D:/IIS/webapp1"
  }
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `source` - This is the source file or folder. It can be specified as
  relative to the current working directory or as an absolute path. This
  attribute cannot be specified with `content`.

* `content` - This is the content to copy on the destination. If destination is a file,
  the content will be written on that file, in case of a directory a file named
  `tf-file-content` is created. It's recommended to use a file as the destination. A
  [`template_file`](/docs/providers/template/d/file.html) might be referenced in here, or
  any interpolation syntax. This attribute cannot be specified with `source`.

* `destination` - (Required) This is the destination path. It must be specified as an
  absolute path.

## Directory Uploads

The file provisioner is also able to upload a complete directory to the remote machine.
When uploading a directory, there are a few important things you should know.

First, when using the `ssh` connection type the destination directory must already exist.
If you need to create it, use a remote-exec provisioner just prior to the file provisioner
in order to create the directory. When using the `winrm` connection type the destination
directory will be created for you if it doesn't already exist.

Next, the existence of a trailing slash on the source path will determine whether the
directory name will be embedded within the destination, or whether the destination will
be created. An example explains this best:

If the source is `/foo` (no trailing slash), and the destination is `/tmp`, then the contents
of `/foo` on the local machine will be uploaded to `/tmp/foo` on the remote machine. The
`foo` directory on the remote machine will be created by Terraform.

If the source, however, is `/foo/` (a trailing slash is present), and the destination is
`/tmp`, then the contents of `/foo` will be uploaded directly into `/tmp`.

This behavior was adopted from the standard behavior of
[rsync](https://linux.die.net/man/1/rsync).

-> **Note:** Under the covers, rsync may or may not be used.
