website/docs/provisioners/remote-exec.html.markdown, before:

---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Provisioner: remote-exec"
sidebar_current: "docs-provisioners-remote"
description: |-
  The `remote-exec` provisioner invokes a script on a remote resource after it is created. This can be used to run a configuration management tool, bootstrap into a cluster, etc. To invoke a local process, see the `local-exec` provisioner instead. The `remote-exec` provisioner supports both `ssh` and `winrm` type connections.
---

# remote-exec Provisioner

The `remote-exec` provisioner invokes a script on a remote resource after it
is created. This can be used to run a configuration management tool, bootstrap
into a cluster, etc. To invoke a local process, see the `local-exec`
[provisioner](/docs/provisioners/local-exec.html) instead. The `remote-exec`
provisioner supports both `ssh` and `winrm` type [connections](/docs/provisioners/connection.html).


## Example usage

```hcl
resource "aws_instance" "web" {
  # ...

  provisioner "remote-exec" {
    inline = [
      "puppet apply",
      "consul join ${aws_instance.web.private_ip}",
    ]
  }
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `inline` - This is a list of command strings. They are executed in the order
  they are provided. This cannot be provided with `script` or `scripts`.

* `script` - This is a path (relative or absolute) to a local script that will
  be copied to the remote resource and then executed. This cannot be provided
  with `inline` or `scripts`.

* `scripts` - This is a list of paths (relative or absolute) to local scripts
  that will be copied to the remote resource and then executed. They are executed
  in the order they are provided. This cannot be provided with `inline` or `script`.

## Script Arguments

You cannot pass any arguments to scripts using the `script` or
`scripts` arguments to this provisioner. If you want to specify arguments,
upload the script with the
[file provisioner](/docs/provisioners/file.html)
and then use `inline` to call it. Example:

```hcl
resource "aws_instance" "web" {
  # ...

  provisioner "file" {
    source      = "script.sh"
    destination = "/tmp/script.sh"
  }

  provisioner "remote-exec" {
    inline = [
      "chmod +x /tmp/script.sh",
      "/tmp/script.sh args",
    ]
  }
}
```

Commit message:

website: Warn against using provisioners
For a long time now we've been advising against the use of provisioners,
but our documentation for them is pretty prominent on the website in
comparision to the better alternatives, and so it's little surprise that
many users end up making significant use of them.

Although in the longer term a change to our information architecture would
probably address this even better, this is an attempt to be explicit about
the downsides of using provisioners and to prominently describe the
alternatives that are available for common use-cases, along with some
reasons why we consider them to be better.

I took the unusual step here of directly linking to specific provider
documentation pages about the alternatives, even though we normally try
to keep the core documentation provider-agnostic, because otherwise that
information tends to be rather buried in the provider documentation and
thus the reader would be reasonable to use provisioners just because we're
not giving specific enough alternative recommendations.

website/docs/provisioners/remote-exec.html.markdown, after:

---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Provisioner: remote-exec"
sidebar_current: "docs-provisioners-remote"
description: |-
  The `remote-exec` provisioner invokes a script on a remote resource after it is created. This can be used to run a configuration management tool, bootstrap into a cluster, etc. To invoke a local process, see the `local-exec` provisioner instead. The `remote-exec` provisioner supports both `ssh` and `winrm` type connections.
---

# remote-exec Provisioner

The `remote-exec` provisioner invokes a script on a remote resource after it
is created. This can be used to run a configuration management tool, bootstrap
into a cluster, etc. To invoke a local process, see the `local-exec`
[provisioner](/docs/provisioners/local-exec.html) instead. The `remote-exec`
provisioner supports both `ssh` and `winrm` type [connections](/docs/provisioners/connection.html).

-> **Note:** Provisioners should only be used as a last resort. For most
common situations there are better alternatives. For more information, see
[the main Provisioners page](./).

## Example usage

```hcl
resource "aws_instance" "web" {
  # ...

  provisioner "remote-exec" {
    inline = [
      "puppet apply",
      "consul join ${aws_instance.web.private_ip}",
    ]
  }
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `inline` - This is a list of command strings. They are executed in the order
  they are provided. This cannot be provided with `script` or `scripts`.

* `script` - This is a path (relative or absolute) to a local script that will
  be copied to the remote resource and then executed. This cannot be provided
  with `inline` or `scripts`.

* `scripts` - This is a list of paths (relative or absolute) to local scripts
  that will be copied to the remote resource and then executed. They are executed
  in the order they are provided. This cannot be provided with `inline` or `script`.

## Script Arguments

You cannot pass any arguments to scripts using the `script` or
`scripts` arguments to this provisioner. If you want to specify arguments,
upload the script with the
[file provisioner](/docs/provisioners/file.html)
and then use `inline` to call it. Example:

```hcl
resource "aws_instance" "web" {
  # ...

  provisioner "file" {
    source      = "script.sh"
    destination = "/tmp/script.sh"
  }

  provisioner "remote-exec" {
    inline = [
      "chmod +x /tmp/script.sh",
      "/tmp/script.sh args",
    ]
  }
}
```
