website/docs/provisioners/salt-masterless.html.md, before:

---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Provisioner: salt-masterless"
sidebar_current: "docs-provisioners-salt-masterless"
description: |-
  The salt-masterless Terraform provisioner provisions machines built by Terraform
---

# Salt Masterless Provisioner

Type: `salt-masterless`

The `salt-masterless` Terraform provisioner provisions machines built by Terraform
using [Salt](http://saltstack.com/) states, without connecting to a Salt master. The `salt-masterless` provisioner supports `ssh` [connections](/docs/provisioners/connection.html).

## Requirements

The `salt-masterless` provisioner has some prerequisites. `cURL` must be available on the remote host.

## Example usage

The example below is fully functional.

```hcl

provisioner "salt-masterless" {
    "local_state_tree" = "/srv/salt"
}
```

## Argument Reference

The reference of available configuration options is listed below. The only
required argument is the path to your local salt state tree.

Optional:

-   `bootstrap_args` (string) - Arguments to send to the bootstrap script. Usage
    is somewhat documented on
    [github](https://github.com/saltstack/salt-bootstrap), but the [script
    itself](https://github.com/saltstack/salt-bootstrap/blob/develop/bootstrap-salt.sh)
    has more detailed usage instructions. By default, no arguments are sent to
    the script.

-   `disable_sudo` (boolean) - By default, the bootstrap install command is prefixed with `sudo`. When using a
    Docker builder, you will likely want to pass `true` since `sudo` is often not pre-installed.

-   `remote_pillar_roots` (string) - The path to your remote [pillar
    roots](http://docs.saltstack.com/ref/configuration/master.html#pillar-configuration).
    default: `/srv/pillar`. This option cannot be used with `minion_config`.

-   `remote_state_tree` (string) - The path to your remote [state
    tree](http://docs.saltstack.com/ref/states/highstate.html#the-salt-state-tree).
    default: `/srv/salt`. This option cannot be used with `minion_config`.

-   `local_pillar_roots` (string) - The path to your local [pillar
    roots](http://docs.saltstack.com/ref/configuration/master.html#pillar-configuration).
    This will be uploaded to the `remote_pillar_roots` on the remote.

-   `local_state_tree` (string) - The path to your local [state
    tree](http://docs.saltstack.com/ref/states/highstate.html#the-salt-state-tree).
    This will be uploaded to the `remote_state_tree` on the remote.

-   `custom_state` (string) - A state to be run instead of `state.highstate`.
    Defaults to `state.highstate` if unspecified.

-   `minion_config_file` (string) - The path to your local [minion config
    file](http://docs.saltstack.com/ref/configuration/minion.html). This will be
    uploaded to the `/etc/salt` on the remote. This option overrides the
    `remote_state_tree` or `remote_pillar_roots` options.

-   `skip_bootstrap` (boolean) - By default the salt provisioner runs [salt
    bootstrap](https://github.com/saltstack/salt-bootstrap) to install salt. Set
    this to true to skip this step.

-   `temp_config_dir` (string) - Where your local state tree will be copied
    before moving to the `/srv/salt` directory. Default is `/tmp/salt`.

-   `no_exit_on_failure` (boolean) - Terraform will exit if the `salt-call` command
    fails. Set this option to true to ignore Salt failures.

-   `log_level` (string) - Set the logging level for the `salt-call` run.

-   `salt_call_args` (string) - Additional arguments to pass directly to `salt-call`. See
    [salt-call](https://docs.saltstack.com/ref/cli/salt-call.html) documentation for more
    information. By default no additional arguments (besides the ones Terraform generates)
    are passed to `salt-call`.

-   `salt_bin_dir` (string) - Path to the `salt-call` executable. Useful if it is not
    on the PATH.

Commit message:

website: Warn against using provisioners
For a long time now we've been advising against the use of provisioners,
but our documentation for them is pretty prominent on the website in
comparision to the better alternatives, and so it's little surprise that
many users end up making significant use of them.

Although in the longer term a change to our information architecture would
probably address this even better, this is an attempt to be explicit about
the downsides of using provisioners and to prominently describe the
alternatives that are available for common use-cases, along with some
reasons why we consider them to be better.

I took the unusual step here of directly linking to specific provider
documentation pages about the alternatives, even though we normally try
to keep the core documentation provider-agnostic, because otherwise that
information tends to be rather buried in the provider documentation and
thus the reader would be reasonable to use provisioners just because we're
not giving specific enough alternative recommendations.

website/docs/provisioners/salt-masterless.html.md, after:

---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Provisioner: salt-masterless"
sidebar_current: "docs-provisioners-salt-masterless"
description: |-
  The salt-masterless Terraform provisioner provisions machines built by Terraform
---

# Salt Masterless Provisioner

Type: `salt-masterless`

The `salt-masterless` Terraform provisioner provisions machines built by Terraform
using [Salt](http://saltstack.com/) states, without connecting to a Salt master. The `salt-masterless` provisioner supports `ssh` [connections](/docs/provisioners/connection.html).

-> **Note:** Provisioners should only be used as a last resort. For most
common situations there are better alternatives. For more information, see
[the main Provisioners page](./).

## Requirements

The `salt-masterless` provisioner has some prerequisites. `cURL` must be available on the remote host.

## Example usage

The example below is fully functional.

```hcl

provisioner "salt-masterless" {
    "local_state_tree" = "/srv/salt"
}
```

## Argument Reference

The reference of available configuration options is listed below. The only
required argument is the path to your local salt state tree.

Optional:

-   `bootstrap_args` (string) - Arguments to send to the bootstrap script. Usage
    is somewhat documented on
    [github](https://github.com/saltstack/salt-bootstrap), but the [script
    itself](https://github.com/saltstack/salt-bootstrap/blob/develop/bootstrap-salt.sh)
    has more detailed usage instructions. By default, no arguments are sent to
    the script.

-   `disable_sudo` (boolean) - By default, the bootstrap install command is prefixed with `sudo`. When using a
    Docker builder, you will likely want to pass `true` since `sudo` is often not pre-installed.

-   `remote_pillar_roots` (string) - The path to your remote [pillar
    roots](http://docs.saltstack.com/ref/configuration/master.html#pillar-configuration).
    default: `/srv/pillar`. This option cannot be used with `minion_config`.

-   `remote_state_tree` (string) - The path to your remote [state
    tree](http://docs.saltstack.com/ref/states/highstate.html#the-salt-state-tree).
    default: `/srv/salt`. This option cannot be used with `minion_config`.

-   `local_pillar_roots` (string) - The path to your local [pillar
    roots](http://docs.saltstack.com/ref/configuration/master.html#pillar-configuration).
    This will be uploaded to the `remote_pillar_roots` on the remote.

-   `local_state_tree` (string) - The path to your local [state
    tree](http://docs.saltstack.com/ref/states/highstate.html#the-salt-state-tree).
    This will be uploaded to the `remote_state_tree` on the remote.

-   `custom_state` (string) - A state to be run instead of `state.highstate`.
    Defaults to `state.highstate` if unspecified.

-   `minion_config_file` (string) - The path to your local [minion config
    file](http://docs.saltstack.com/ref/configuration/minion.html). This will be
    uploaded to the `/etc/salt` on the remote. This option overrides the
    `remote_state_tree` or `remote_pillar_roots` options.

-   `skip_bootstrap` (boolean) - By default the salt provisioner runs [salt
    bootstrap](https://github.com/saltstack/salt-bootstrap) to install salt. Set
    this to true to skip this step.

-   `temp_config_dir` (string) - Where your local state tree will be copied
    before moving to the `/srv/salt` directory. Default is `/tmp/salt`.

-   `no_exit_on_failure` (boolean) - Terraform will exit if the `salt-call` command
    fails. Set this option to true to ignore Salt failures.

-   `log_level` (string) - Set the logging level for the `salt-call` run.

-   `salt_call_args` (string) - Additional arguments to pass directly to `salt-call`. See
    [salt-call](https://docs.saltstack.com/ref/cli/salt-call.html) documentation for more
    information. By default no additional arguments (besides the ones Terraform generates)
    are passed to `salt-call`.

-   `salt_bin_dir` (string) - Path to the `salt-call` executable. Useful if it is not
    on the PATH.
