examples/azure-2-vms-loadbalancer-lbrules/README.md, before:

# Create 2 Virtual Machines under a Load balancer and configures Load Balancing rules for the VMs

This Terraform template was based on [this](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/tree/master/201-2-vms-loadbalancer-lbrules) Azure Quickstart Template. Changes to the ARM template may have occured since the creation of this example may not be reflected here.

This template allows you to create 2 Virtual Machines under a Load balancer and configure a load balancing rule on Port 80. This template also deploys a Storage Account, Virtual Network, Public IP address, Availability Set, and Network Interfaces.

## main.tf
The `main.tf` file contains the actual resources that will be deployed. It also contains the Azure Resource Group definition and any defined variables. 

## outputs.tf
This data is outputted when `terraform apply` is called, and can be queried using the `terraform output` command.

## provider.tf
Azure requires that an application is added to Azure Active Directory to generate the `client_id`, `client_secret`, and `tenant_id` needed by Terraform (`subscription_id` can be recovered from your Azure account details). Please go [here](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/azurerm/) for full instructions on how to create this to populate your `provider.tf` file.

## terraform.tfvars
If a `terraform.tfvars` file is present in the current directory, Terraform automatically loads it to populate variables. We don't recommend saving usernames and password to version control, but you can create a local secret variables file and use `-var-file` to load it.

If you are committing this template to source control, please insure that you add this file to your .gitignore file.

## variables.tf
The `variables.tf` file contains all of the input parameters that the user can specify when deploying this Terraform template.

Commit message:

Autoload only .auto.tfvars files

examples/azure-2-vms-loadbalancer-lbrules/README.md, after:

# Create 2 Virtual Machines under a Load balancer and configures Load Balancing rules for the VMs

This Terraform template was based on [this](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/tree/master/201-2-vms-loadbalancer-lbrules) Azure Quickstart Template. Changes to the ARM template may have occured since the creation of this example may not be reflected here.

This template allows you to create 2 Virtual Machines under a Load balancer and configure a load balancing rule on Port 80. This template also deploys a Storage Account, Virtual Network, Public IP address, Availability Set, and Network Interfaces.

## main.tf
The `main.tf` file contains the actual resources that will be deployed. It also contains the Azure Resource Group definition and any defined variables. 

## outputs.tf
This data is outputted when `terraform apply` is called, and can be queried using the `terraform output` command.

## provider.tf
Azure requires that an application is added to Azure Active Directory to generate the `client_id`, `client_secret`, and `tenant_id` needed by Terraform (`subscription_id` can be recovered from your Azure account details). Please go [here](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/azurerm/) for full instructions on how to create this to populate your `provider.tf` file.

## terraform.tfvars
If a `terraform.tfvars` or any `.auto.tfvars` files are present in the current directory, Terraform automatically loads them to populate variables. We don't recommend saving usernames and password to version control, but you can create a local secret variables file and use the `-var-file` flag or the `.auto.tfvars` extension to load it.

If you are committing this template to source control, please insure that you add this file to your .gitignore file.

## variables.tf
The `variables.tf` file contains all of the input parameters that the user can specify when deploying this Terraform template.
