examples/azure-vmss-ubuntu/README.md, before:

# Linux VM Scale Set

This template deploys a desired count Linux VM Scale Set. Once the VMSS is deployed, the user can deploy an application inside each of the VMs (either by directly logging into the VMs or via a [`remote-exec` provisioner](https://www.terraform.io/docs/provisioners/remote-exec.html)).

## main.tf
The `main.tf` file contains the actual resources that will be deployed. It also contains the Azure Resource Group definition and any defined variables.

## outputs.tf
This data is outputted when `terraform apply` is called, and can be queried using the `terraform output` command.

## provider.tf
You may leave the provider block in the `main.tf`, as it is in this template, or you can create a file called `provider.tf` and add it to your `.gitignore` file.

Azure requires that an application is added to Azure Active Directory to generate the `client_id`, `client_secret`, and `tenant_id` needed by Terraform (`subscription_id` can be recovered from your Azure account details). Please go [here](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/azurerm/) for full instructions on how to create this to populate your `provider.tf` file.

## terraform.tfvars
If a `terraform.tfvars` file is present in the current directory, Terraform automatically loads it to populate variables. We don't recommend saving usernames and password to version control, but you can create a local secret variables file and use `-var-file` to load it.

## variables.tf
The `variables.tf` file contains all of the input parameters that the user can specify when deploying this Terraform template.

![`terraform graph`](/examples/azure-vmss-ubuntu/graph.png)

Commit message:

Autoload only .auto.tfvars files

examples/azure-vmss-ubuntu/README.md, after:

# Linux VM Scale Set

This template deploys a desired count Linux VM Scale Set. Once the VMSS is deployed, the user can deploy an application inside each of the VMs (either by directly logging into the VMs or via a [`remote-exec` provisioner](https://www.terraform.io/docs/provisioners/remote-exec.html)).

## main.tf
The `main.tf` file contains the actual resources that will be deployed. It also contains the Azure Resource Group definition and any defined variables.

## outputs.tf
This data is outputted when `terraform apply` is called, and can be queried using the `terraform output` command.

## provider.tf
You may leave the provider block in the `main.tf`, as it is in this template, or you can create a file called `provider.tf` and add it to your `.gitignore` file.

Azure requires that an application is added to Azure Active Directory to generate the `client_id`, `client_secret`, and `tenant_id` needed by Terraform (`subscription_id` can be recovered from your Azure account details). Please go [here](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/azurerm/) for full instructions on how to create this to populate your `provider.tf` file.

## terraform.tfvars
If a `terraform.tfvars` or any `.auto.tfvars` files are present in the current directory, Terraform automatically loads them to populate variables. We don't recommend saving usernames and password to version control, but you can create a local secret variables file and use the `-var-file` flag or the `.auto.tfvars` extension to load it.

## variables.tf
The `variables.tf` file contains all of the input parameters that the user can specify when deploying this Terraform template.

![`terraform graph`](/examples/azure-vmss-ubuntu/graph.png)
