website/docs/configuration/functions/basename.html.md, before:

---
layout: "functions"
page_title: "basename - Functions - Configuration Language"
sidebar_current: "docs-funcs-file-basename"
description: |-
  The basename function removes all except the last portion from a filesystem
  path.
---

# `basename` Function

`basename` takes a string containing a filesystem path and removes all except
the last portion from it.

This function works only with the path string and does not access the
filesystem itself. It is therefore unable to take into account filesystem
features such as symlinks.

If the path is empty then the result is `"."`, representing the current
working directory.

The behavior of this function depends on the host platform. On Windows systems,
it uses backslash `\` as the path segment separator. On Unix systems, the slash
`/` is used.

Referring directly to filesystem paths in resource arguments may cause
spurious diffs if the same configuration is applied from multiple systems or on
different host operating systems. We recommend using filesystem paths only
for transient values, such as the argument to [`file`](./file.html) (where
only the contents are then stored) or in `connection` and `provisioner` blocks.

## Examples

```
> basename("foo/bar/baz.txt")
baz.txt
```

## Related Functions

* [`dirname`](./dirname.html) returns all of the segments of a filesystem path
  _except_ the last, discarding the portion that would be returned by
  `basename`.

Commit message:

website: Version notes: Add new -> old links to 0.12 language docs (function pages)

website/docs/configuration/functions/basename.html.md, after:

---
layout: "functions"
page_title: "basename - Functions - Configuration Language"
sidebar_current: "docs-funcs-file-basename"
description: |-
  The basename function removes all except the last portion from a filesystem
  path.
---

# `basename` Function

-> **Note:** This page is about Terraform 0.12 and later. For Terraform 0.11 and
earlier, see
[0.11 Configuration Language: Interpolation Syntax](../../configuration-0-11/interpolation.html).

`basename` takes a string containing a filesystem path and removes all except
the last portion from it.

This function works only with the path string and does not access the
filesystem itself. It is therefore unable to take into account filesystem
features such as symlinks.

If the path is empty then the result is `"."`, representing the current
working directory.

The behavior of this function depends on the host platform. On Windows systems,
it uses backslash `\` as the path segment separator. On Unix systems, the slash
`/` is used.

Referring directly to filesystem paths in resource arguments may cause
spurious diffs if the same configuration is applied from multiple systems or on
different host operating systems. We recommend using filesystem paths only
for transient values, such as the argument to [`file`](./file.html) (where
only the contents are then stored) or in `connection` and `provisioner` blocks.

## Examples

```
> basename("foo/bar/baz.txt")
baz.txt
```

## Related Functions

* [`dirname`](./dirname.html) returns all of the segments of a filesystem path
  _except_ the last, discarding the portion that would be returned by
  `basename`.
