website/docs/configuration/functions/file.html.md, before:

---
layout: "functions"
page_title: "file - Functions - Configuration Language"
sidebar_current: "docs-funcs-file-file-x"
description: |-
  The file function reads the contents of the file at the given path and
  returns them as a string.
---

# `file` Function

`file` reads the contents of a file at the given path and returns them as
a string.

```hcl
file(path)
```

Strings in the Terraform language are sequences of Unicode characters, so
this function will interpret the file contents as UTF-8 encoded text and
return the resulting Unicode characters. If the file contains invalid UTF-8
sequences then this function will produce an error.

This function can be used only with functions that already exist as static
files on disk at the beginning of a Terraform run. Language functions do not
participate in the dependency graph, so this function cannot be used with
files that are generated dynamically during a Terraform operation. We do not
recommend using of dynamic local files in Terraform configurations, but in rare
situations where this is necessary you can use
[the `local_file` data source](/docs/providers/local/d/file.html)
to read files while respecting resource dependencies.

## Examples

```
> file("${path.module}/hello.txt")
Hello World
```

## Related Functions

* [`filebase64`](./filebase64.html) also reads the contents of a given file,
  but returns the raw bytes in that file Base64-encoded, rather than
  interpreting the contents as UTF-8 text.
* [`fileexists`](./fileexists.html) determines whether a file exists
  at a given path.

Commit message:

lang/funcs: templatefile function
This function is similar to the template_file data source offered by the
template provider, but having it built in to the language makes it more
convenient to use, allowing templates to be rendered from files anywhere
an inline template would normally be allowed:

    user_data = templatefile("${path.module}/userdata.tmpl", {
      hostname = format("petserver%02d", count.index)
    })

Unlike the template_file data source, this function allows values of any
type in its variables map, passing them through verbatim to the template.
Its tighter integration with Terraform also allows it to return better
error messages with source location information from the template itself.

The template_file data source was originally created to work around the
fact that HIL didn't have any support for map values at the time, and
even once map support was added it wasn't very usable. With HCL2
expressions, there's little reason left to use a data source to render
a template; the only remaining reason left to use template_file is to
render a template that is constructed dynamically during the Terraform
run, which is a very rare need.

website/docs/configuration/functions/file.html.md, after:

---
layout: "functions"
page_title: "file - Functions - Configuration Language"
sidebar_current: "docs-funcs-file-file-x"
description: |-
  The file function reads the contents of the file at the given path and
  returns them as a string.
---

# `file` Function

`file` reads the contents of a file at the given path and returns them as
a string.

```hcl
file(path)
```

Strings in the Terraform language are sequences of Unicode characters, so
this function will interpret the file contents as UTF-8 encoded text and
return the resulting Unicode characters. If the file contains invalid UTF-8
sequences then this function will produce an error.

This function can be used only with files that already exist on disk
at the beginning of a Terraform run. Functions do not participate in the
dependency graph, so this function cannot be used with files that are generated
dynamically during a Terraform operation. We do not recommend using dynamic
local files in Terraform configurations, but in rare situations where this is
necessary you can use
[the `local_file` data source](/docs/providers/local/d/file.html)
to read files while respecting resource dependencies.

## Examples

```
> file("${path.module}/hello.txt")
Hello World
```

## Related Functions

* [`filebase64`](./filebase64.html) also reads the contents of a given file,
  but returns the raw bytes in that file Base64-encoded, rather than
  interpreting the contents as UTF-8 text.
* [`fileexists`](./fileexists.html) determines whether a file exists
  at a given path.
* [`templatefile`](./templatefile.html) renders uses a file from disk as a
  template.
