website/docs/configuration/functions/length.html.md, before:

---
layout: "functions"
page_title: "length - Functions - Configuration Language"
sidebar_current: "docs-funcs-collection-length"
description: |-
  The length function determines the length of a collection or string.
---

# `length` Function

`length` determines the length of a given list, map, or string.

If given a list or map, the result is the number of elements in that collection.
If given a string, the result is the number of characters in the string.

## Examples

```
> length([])
0
> length(["a", "b"])
2
> length({"a" = "b"})
1
> length("hello")
5
```

When given a string, the result is the number of characters, rather than the
number of bytes or Unicode sequences that form them:

```
> length("👾🕹️")
2
```

A "character" is a _grapheme cluster_, as defined by
[Unicode Standard Annex #29](http://unicode.org/reports/tr29/). Note that
remote APIs may have a different definition of "character" for the purpose of
length limits on string arguments; a Terraform provider is responsible for
translating Terraform's string representation into that used by its respective
remote system and applying any additional validation rules to it.

Commit message:

website: Version notes: Add new -> old links to 0.12 language docs (function pages)

website/docs/configuration/functions/length.html.md, after:

---
layout: "functions"
page_title: "length - Functions - Configuration Language"
sidebar_current: "docs-funcs-collection-length"
description: |-
  The length function determines the length of a collection or string.
---

# `length` Function

-> **Note:** This page is about Terraform 0.12 and later. For Terraform 0.11 and
earlier, see
[0.11 Configuration Language: Interpolation Syntax](../../configuration-0-11/interpolation.html).

`length` determines the length of a given list, map, or string.

If given a list or map, the result is the number of elements in that collection.
If given a string, the result is the number of characters in the string.

## Examples

```
> length([])
0
> length(["a", "b"])
2
> length({"a" = "b"})
1
> length("hello")
5
```

When given a string, the result is the number of characters, rather than the
number of bytes or Unicode sequences that form them:

```
> length("👾🕹️")
2
```

A "character" is a _grapheme cluster_, as defined by
[Unicode Standard Annex #29](http://unicode.org/reports/tr29/). Note that
remote APIs may have a different definition of "character" for the purpose of
length limits on string arguments; a Terraform provider is responsible for
translating Terraform's string representation into that used by its respective
remote system and applying any additional validation rules to it.
