website/docs/configuration/functions/replace.html.md, before:

---
layout: "functions"
page_title: "replace - Functions - Configuration Language"
sidebar_current: "docs-funcs-string-replace"
description: |-
  The replace function searches a given string for another given substring,
  and replaces all occurrences with a given replacement string.
---

# `replace` Function

-> **Note:** This page is about Terraform 0.12 and later. For Terraform 0.11 and
earlier, see
[0.11 Configuration Language: Interpolation Syntax](../../configuration-0-11/interpolation.html).

`replace` searches a given string for another given substring, and replaces
each occurrence with a given replacement string.

```hcl
replace(string, substring, replacement)
```

If `substring` is wrapped in forward slashes, it is treated as a regular
expression; the syntax conforms to the [re2 regular expression
syntax](https://github.com/google/re2/wiki/Syntax) syntax. If using a regular
expression for the substring argument, the `replacement` string can incorporate
captured strings from the input by using an `$n` sequence, where `n` is the
index or name of a capture group.

## Examples

```
> replace("1 + 2 + 3", "+", "-")
1 - 2 - 3

> replace("hello world", "/w.*d/", "everybody")
hello everybody
```

Commit message:

lang: "regex" and "regexall" functions
These existing upstream cty functions allow matching strings against
regular expression patterns, which can be useful if you need to consume
a non-standard string format that Terraform doesn't (and can't) have a
built-in function for.

website/docs/configuration/functions/replace.html.md, after:

---
layout: "functions"
page_title: "replace - Functions - Configuration Language"
sidebar_current: "docs-funcs-string-replace"
description: |-
  The replace function searches a given string for another given substring,
  and replaces all occurrences with a given replacement string.
---

# `replace` Function

-> **Note:** This page is about Terraform 0.12 and later. For Terraform 0.11 and
earlier, see
[0.11 Configuration Language: Interpolation Syntax](../../configuration-0-11/interpolation.html).

`replace` searches a given string for another given substring, and replaces
each occurrence with a given replacement string.

```hcl
replace(string, substring, replacement)
```

If `substring` is wrapped in forward slashes, it is treated as a regular
expression, using the same pattern syntax as
[`regex`](./regex.html). If using a regular expression for the substring
argument, the `replacement` string can incorporate captured strings from
the input by using an `$n` sequence, where `n` is the index or name of a
capture group.

## Examples

```
> replace("1 + 2 + 3", "+", "-")
1 - 2 - 3

> replace("hello world", "/w.*d/", "everybody")
hello everybody
```

## Related Functions

- [`regex`](./regex.html) searches a given string for a substring matching a
  given regular expression pattern.
