website/docs/configuration/functions/setintersection.html.md, before:

---
layout: "functions"
page_title: "setintersection - Functions - Configuration Language"
sidebar_current: "docs-funcs-collection-setintersection"
description: |-
  The setintersection function takes multiple sets and produces a single set
  containing only the elements that all of the given sets have in common.
---

# `setintersection` Function

The `setintersection` function takes multiple sets and produces a single set
containing only the elements that all of the given sets have in common.
In other words, it computes the
[intersection](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intersection_(set_theory)) of the sets.

```hcl
setintersection(sets...)
```

## Examples

```
> setintersection(["a", "b"], ["b", "c"], ["b", "d"])
[
  "b",
]
```

The given arguments are converted to sets, so the result is also a set and
the ordering of the given elements is not preserved.

## Related Functions

* [`sethaselement`](./sethaselement.html) tests whether a given set contains
  a given element value.
* [`setproduct`](./setproduct.html) computes the _cartesian product_ of multiple
  sets.
* [`setunion`](./setunion.html) computes the _union_ of
  multiple sets.

Commit message:

website: Version notes: Add new -> old links to 0.12 language docs (function pages)

website/docs/configuration/functions/setintersection.html.md, after:

---
layout: "functions"
page_title: "setintersection - Functions - Configuration Language"
sidebar_current: "docs-funcs-collection-setintersection"
description: |-
  The setintersection function takes multiple sets and produces a single set
  containing only the elements that all of the given sets have in common.
---

# `setintersection` Function

-> **Note:** This page is about Terraform 0.12 and later. For Terraform 0.11 and
earlier, see
[0.11 Configuration Language: Interpolation Syntax](../../configuration-0-11/interpolation.html).

The `setintersection` function takes multiple sets and produces a single set
containing only the elements that all of the given sets have in common.
In other words, it computes the
[intersection](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intersection_(set_theory)) of the sets.

```hcl
setintersection(sets...)
```

## Examples

```
> setintersection(["a", "b"], ["b", "c"], ["b", "d"])
[
  "b",
]
```

The given arguments are converted to sets, so the result is also a set and
the ordering of the given elements is not preserved.

## Related Functions

* [`sethaselement`](./sethaselement.html) tests whether a given set contains
  a given element value.
* [`setproduct`](./setproduct.html) computes the _cartesian product_ of multiple
  sets.
* [`setunion`](./setunion.html) computes the _union_ of
  multiple sets.
