website/docs/configuration/functions/sha256.html.md, before:

---
layout: "functions"
page_title: "sha256 - Functions - Configuration Language"
sidebar_current: "docs-funcs-crypto-sha256"
description: |-
  The sha256 function computes the SHA256 hash of a given string and encodes it
  with hexadecimal digits.
---

# `sha256` Function

`sha256` computes the SHA256 hash of a given string and encodes it with
hexadecimal digits.

The given string is first encoded as UTF-8 and then the SHA256 algorithm is applied
as defined in [RFC 4634](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4634). The raw hash is
then encoded to lowercase hexadecimal digits before returning.

## Examples

```
> sha256("hello world")
b94d27b9934d3e08a52e52d7da7dabfac484efe37a5380ee9088f7ace2efcde9
```

## Related Functions


## Related Functions

* [`filesha256`](./filesha256.html) calculates the same hash from
  the contents of a file rather than from a string value.
* [`base64sha256`](./base64sha256.html) calculates the same hash but returns
  the result in a more-compact Base64 encoding.

Commit message:

website: Version notes: Add new -> old links to 0.12 language docs (function pages)

website/docs/configuration/functions/sha256.html.md, after:

---
layout: "functions"
page_title: "sha256 - Functions - Configuration Language"
sidebar_current: "docs-funcs-crypto-sha256"
description: |-
  The sha256 function computes the SHA256 hash of a given string and encodes it
  with hexadecimal digits.
---

# `sha256` Function

-> **Note:** This page is about Terraform 0.12 and later. For Terraform 0.11 and
earlier, see
[0.11 Configuration Language: Interpolation Syntax](../../configuration-0-11/interpolation.html).

`sha256` computes the SHA256 hash of a given string and encodes it with
hexadecimal digits.

The given string is first encoded as UTF-8 and then the SHA256 algorithm is applied
as defined in [RFC 4634](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4634). The raw hash is
then encoded to lowercase hexadecimal digits before returning.

## Examples

```
> sha256("hello world")
b94d27b9934d3e08a52e52d7da7dabfac484efe37a5380ee9088f7ace2efcde9
```

## Related Functions


## Related Functions

* [`filesha256`](./filesha256.html) calculates the same hash from
  the contents of a file rather than from a string value.
* [`base64sha256`](./base64sha256.html) calculates the same hash but returns
  the result in a more-compact Base64 encoding.
