website/docs/configuration/functions/sha512.html.md, before:

---
layout: "functions"
page_title: "sha512 - Functions - Configuration Language"
sidebar_current: "docs-funcs-crypto-sha512"
description: |-
  The sha512 function computes the SHA512 hash of a given string and encodes it
  with hexadecimal digits.
---

# `sha512` Function

`sha512` computes the SHA512 hash of a given string and encodes it with
hexadecimal digits.

The given string is first encoded as UTF-8 and then the SHA512 algorithm is applied
as defined in [RFC 4634](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4634). The raw hash is
then encoded to lowercase hexadecimal digits before returning.

## Examples

```
> sha512("hello world")
309ecc489c12d6eb4cc40f50c902f2b4d0ed77ee511a7c7a9bcd3ca86d4cd86f989dd35bc5ff499670da34255b45b0cfd830e81f605dcf7dc5542e93ae9cd76f
```

## Related Functions

* [`filesha512`](./filesha512.html) calculates the same hash from
  the contents of a file rather than from a string value.
* [`base64sha512`](./base64sha512.html) calculates the same hash but returns
  the result in a more-compact Base64 encoding.

Commit message:

website: Version notes: Add new -> old links to 0.12 language docs (function pages)

website/docs/configuration/functions/sha512.html.md, after:

---
layout: "functions"
page_title: "sha512 - Functions - Configuration Language"
sidebar_current: "docs-funcs-crypto-sha512"
description: |-
  The sha512 function computes the SHA512 hash of a given string and encodes it
  with hexadecimal digits.
---

# `sha512` Function

-> **Note:** This page is about Terraform 0.12 and later. For Terraform 0.11 and
earlier, see
[0.11 Configuration Language: Interpolation Syntax](../../configuration-0-11/interpolation.html).

`sha512` computes the SHA512 hash of a given string and encodes it with
hexadecimal digits.

The given string is first encoded as UTF-8 and then the SHA512 algorithm is applied
as defined in [RFC 4634](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4634). The raw hash is
then encoded to lowercase hexadecimal digits before returning.

## Examples

```
> sha512("hello world")
309ecc489c12d6eb4cc40f50c902f2b4d0ed77ee511a7c7a9bcd3ca86d4cd86f989dd35bc5ff499670da34255b45b0cfd830e81f605dcf7dc5542e93ae9cd76f
```

## Related Functions

* [`filesha512`](./filesha512.html) calculates the same hash from
  the contents of a file rather than from a string value.
* [`base64sha512`](./base64sha512.html) calculates the same hash but returns
  the result in a more-compact Base64 encoding.
