website/docs/configuration/functions/timeadd.html.md, before:

---
layout: "functions"
page_title: "timeadd - Functions - Configuration Language"
sidebar_current: "docs-funcs-datetime-timeadd"
description: |-
  The timeadd function adds a duration to a timestamp, returning a new
  timestamp.
---

# `timeadd` Function

`timeadd` adds a duration to a timestamp, returning a new timestamp.

```hcl
timeadd(timestamp, duration)
```

In the Terraform language, timestamps are conventionally represented as
strings using [RFC 3339](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3339)
"Date and Time format" syntax. `timeadd` requires the `timestamp` argument
to be a string conforming to this syntax.

`duration` is a string representation of a time difference, consisting of
sequences of number and unit pairs, like `"1.5h"` or `1h30m`. The accepted
units are `ns`, `us` (or `µs`), `"ms"`, `"s"`, `"m"`, and `"h"`. The first
number may be negative to indicate a negative duration, like `"-2h5m"`.

The result is a string, also in RFC 3339 format, representing the result
of adding the given direction to the given timestamp.

## Examples

```
> timeadd("2017-11-22T00:00:00Z", "10m")
2017-11-22T00:10:00Z
```

Commit message:

website: Version notes: Add new -> old links to 0.12 language docs (function pages)

website/docs/configuration/functions/timeadd.html.md, after:

---
layout: "functions"
page_title: "timeadd - Functions - Configuration Language"
sidebar_current: "docs-funcs-datetime-timeadd"
description: |-
  The timeadd function adds a duration to a timestamp, returning a new
  timestamp.
---

# `timeadd` Function

-> **Note:** This page is about Terraform 0.12 and later. For Terraform 0.11 and
earlier, see
[0.11 Configuration Language: Interpolation Syntax](../../configuration-0-11/interpolation.html).

`timeadd` adds a duration to a timestamp, returning a new timestamp.

```hcl
timeadd(timestamp, duration)
```

In the Terraform language, timestamps are conventionally represented as
strings using [RFC 3339](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3339)
"Date and Time format" syntax. `timeadd` requires the `timestamp` argument
to be a string conforming to this syntax.

`duration` is a string representation of a time difference, consisting of
sequences of number and unit pairs, like `"1.5h"` or `1h30m`. The accepted
units are `ns`, `us` (or `µs`), `"ms"`, `"s"`, `"m"`, and `"h"`. The first
number may be negative to indicate a negative duration, like `"-2h5m"`.

The result is a string, also in RFC 3339 format, representing the result
of adding the given direction to the given timestamp.

## Examples

```
> timeadd("2017-11-22T00:00:00Z", "10m")
2017-11-22T00:10:00Z
```
