website/docs/commands/providers.html.markdown, before:

---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Command: providers"
sidebar_current: "docs-commands-providers"
description: |-
  The "providers" sub-command prints information about the providers used
  in the current configuration.
---

# Command: providers

The `terraform providers` command prints information about the providers
used in the current configuration.

Provider dependencies are created in several different ways:

* Explicit use of a `provider` block in configuration, optionally including
  a version constraint.

* Use of any resource belonging to a particular provider in a `resource` or
  `data` block in configuration.

* Existence of any resource instance belonging to a particular provider in
  the current _state_. For example, if a particular resource is removed
  from configuration, it continues to create a dependency on its provider
  until its instances have been destroyed.

This command gives an overview of all of the current dependencies, as an aid
to understanding why a particular provider is needed.

## Usage

Usage: `terraform providers [config-path]`

Pass an explicit configuration path to override the default of using the
current working directory.

Commit message:

website: add documentation for terraform providers schema (#20468)
* website: add documentation for terraform providers schema

website/docs/commands/providers.html.markdown, after:

---
layout: "commands-providers"
page_title: "Command: providers"
sidebar_current: "docs-commands-providers"
description: |-
  The `terraform providers` command prints information about the providers used
  in the current configuration.
---

# Command: providers

The `terraform providers` command prints information about the providers
used in the current configuration.

Provider dependencies are created in several different ways:

* Explicit use of a `provider` block in configuration, optionally including
  a version constraint.

* Use of any resource belonging to a particular provider in a `resource` or
  `data` block in configuration.

* Existence of any resource instance belonging to a particular provider in
  the current _state_. For example, if a particular resource is removed
  from configuration, it continues to create a dependency on its provider
  until its instances have been destroyed.

This command gives an overview of all of the current dependencies, as an aid
to understanding why a particular provider is needed.

This command is a nested subcommand, meaning that it has further subcommands.
These subcommands are listed to the left.

## Usage

Usage: `terraform providers [config-path]`

Pass an explicit configuration path to override the default of using the
current working directory.

Please refer to the subcommands to the left for additional usages.
