website/docs/commands/show.html.markdown, before:

---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Command: show"
sidebar_current: "docs-commands-show"
description: |-
  The `terraform show` command is used to provide human-readable output from a state or plan file. This can be used to inspect a plan to ensure that the planned operations are expected, or to inspect the current state as Terraform sees it.
---

# Command: show

The `terraform show` command is used to provide human-readable output
from a state or plan file. This can be used to inspect a plan to ensure
that the planned operations are expected, or to inspect the current state
as Terraform sees it.

Machine-readable output is generated by adding the `-json` command-line
flag. This is only available when using `show` with a path to a Terraform
plan file.

**NOTE** 
When using the `-json` command-line flag, any sensitive values in 
terraform state will be displayed in plain text. For more information, see
[_Sensitive Data in State_](/docs/state/sensitive-data.html).

## Usage

Usage: `terraform show [options] [path]`

You may use `show` with a path to either a Terraform state file or plan
file. If no path is specified, the current state will be shown.

The command-line flags are all optional. The list of available flags are:

* `-no-color` - Disables output with coloring

* `-json` - Displays machine-readable output from a plan file

Commit message:

website/docs: add -json flag to terraform show docsn

website/docs/commands/show.html.markdown, after:

---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Command: show"
sidebar_current: "docs-commands-show"
description: |-
  The `terraform show` command is used to provide human-readable output from a state or plan file. This can be used to inspect a plan to ensure that the planned operations are expected, or to inspect the current state as Terraform sees it.
---

# Command: show

The `terraform show` command is used to provide human-readable output
from a state or plan file. This can be used to inspect a plan to ensure
that the planned operations are expected, or to inspect the current state
as Terraform sees it.

Machine-readable output is generated by adding the `-json` command-line
flag. This is only available when using `show` with a path to a Terraform
plan file.

**NOTE** 
When using the `-json` command-line flag, any sensitive values in 
terraform state will be displayed in plain text. For more information, see
[_Sensitive Data in State_](/docs/state/sensitive-data.html).

## json output

When `terraform show -json` is run with a path to a Terraform state file or no
path, a json representation of the current state will be shown.

When `terraform show -json` is run with a path to a Terraform plan file, a json
representation of the plan, configuration, and current state will be shown.

## Usage

Usage: `terraform show [options] [path]`

You may use `show` with a path to either a Terraform state file or plan
file. If no path is specified, the current state will be shown.

The command-line flags are all optional. The list of available flags are:

* `-no-color` - Disables output with coloring

* `-json` - Displays machine-readable output from a state or plan file
