examples/azure-vm-simple-linux-managed-disk/README.md, before:

# Very simple deployment of a Linux VM 

This template allows you to deploy a simple Linux VM using a few different options for the Ubuntu version, using the latest patched version. This will deploy an A0 size VM in the resource group location and return the FQDN of the VM.

This template takes a minimum amount of parameters and deploys a Linux VM, using the latest patched version.

## main.tf
The `main.tf` file contains the actual resources that will be deployed. It also contains the Azure Resource Group definition and any defined variables.

## outputs.tf
This data is outputted when `terraform apply` is called, and can be queried using the `terraform output` command.

## provider.tf
Azure requires that an application is added to Azure Active Directory to generate the `client_id`, `client_secret`, and `tenant_id` needed by Terraform (`subscription_id` can be recovered from your Azure account details). Please go [here](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/azurerm/) for full instructions on how to create this to populate your `provider.tf` file.

## terraform.tfvars
If a `terraform.tfvars` file is present in the current directory, Terraform automatically loads it to populate variables. We don't recommend saving usernames and password to version control, but you can create a local secret variables file and use `-var-file` to load it.

## variables.tf
The `variables.tf` file contains all of the input parameters that the user can specify when deploying this Terraform template.

![graph](/examples/azure-vm-simple-linux-managed-disk/graph.png)

Commit message:

Autoload only .auto.tfvars files

examples/azure-vm-simple-linux-managed-disk/README.md, after:

# Very simple deployment of a Linux VM 

This template allows you to deploy a simple Linux VM using a few different options for the Ubuntu version, using the latest patched version. This will deploy an A0 size VM in the resource group location and return the FQDN of the VM.

This template takes a minimum amount of parameters and deploys a Linux VM, using the latest patched version.

## main.tf
The `main.tf` file contains the actual resources that will be deployed. It also contains the Azure Resource Group definition and any defined variables.

## outputs.tf
This data is outputted when `terraform apply` is called, and can be queried using the `terraform output` command.

## provider.tf
Azure requires that an application is added to Azure Active Directory to generate the `client_id`, `client_secret`, and `tenant_id` needed by Terraform (`subscription_id` can be recovered from your Azure account details). Please go [here](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/azurerm/) for full instructions on how to create this to populate your `provider.tf` file.

## terraform.tfvars
If a `terraform.tfvars` or any `.auto.tfvars` files are present in the current directory, Terraform automatically loads them to populate variables. We don't recommend saving usernames and password to version control, but you can create a local secret variables file and use the `-var-file` flag or the `.auto.tfvars` extension to load it.

## variables.tf
The `variables.tf` file contains all of the input parameters that the user can specify when deploying this Terraform template.

![graph](/examples/azure-vm-simple-linux-managed-disk/graph.png)
