website/intro/getting-started/destroy.html.md, before:

---
layout: "intro"
page_title: "Destroy Infrastructure"
sidebar_current: "gettingstarted-destroy"
description: |-
  We've now seen how to build and change infrastructure. Before we move on to creating multiple resources and showing resource dependencies, we're going to go over how to completely destroy the Terraform-managed infrastructure.
---

# Destroy Infrastructure

We've now seen how to build and change infrastructure. Before we
move on to creating multiple resources and showing resource
dependencies, we're going to go over how to completely destroy
the Terraform-managed infrastructure.

Destroying your infrastructure is a rare event in production
environments. But if you're using Terraform to spin up multiple
environments such as development, test, QA environments, then
destroying is a useful action.

## Plan

Before destroying our infrastructure, we can use the plan command
to see what resources Terraform will destroy.

```
$ terraform plan -destroy
# ...

- aws_instance.example
```

With the `-destroy` flag, we're asking Terraform to plan a destroy,
where all resources under Terraform management are destroyed. You can
use this output to verify exactly what resources Terraform is managing
and will destroy.

## Destroy

Let's destroy the infrastructure now:

```
$ terraform destroy
aws_instance.example: Destroying...

Apply complete! Resources: 0 added, 0 changed, 1 destroyed.

# ...
```

The `terraform destroy` command should ask you to verify that you
really want to destroy the infrastructure. Terraform only accepts the
literal "yes" as an answer as a safety mechanism. Once entered, Terraform
will go through and destroy the infrastructure.

Just like with `apply`, Terraform is smart enough to determine what order
things should be destroyed. In our case, we only had one resource, so there
wasn't any ordering necessary. But in more complicated cases with multiple
resources, Terraform will destroy in the proper order.

## Next

You now know how to create, modify, and destroy infrastructure
from a local machine.

Next, we move on to features that make Terraform configurations
slightly more useful: [variables, resource dependencies, provisioning,
and more](/intro/getting-started/dependencies.html).

Commit message:

command: "terraform apply" uses interactive confirmation by default
In the 0.10 release we added an opt-in mode where Terraform would prompt
interactively for confirmation during apply. We made this opt-in to give
those who wrap Terraform in automation some time to update their scripts
to explicitly opt out of this behavior where appropriate.

Here we switch the default so that a "terraform apply" with no arguments
will -- if it computes a non-empty diff -- display the diff and wait for
the user to type "yes" in similar vein to the "terraform destroy" command.

This makes the commonly-used "terraform apply" a safe workflow for
interactive use, so "terraform plan" is now mainly for use in automation
where a separate planning step is used. The apply command remains
non-interactive when given an explicit plan file.

The previous behavior -- though not recommended -- can be obtained by
explicitly setting the -auto-approve option on the apply command line,
and indeed that is how all of the tests are updated here so that they can
continue to run non-interactively.

website/intro/getting-started/destroy.html.md, after:

---
layout: "intro"
page_title: "Destroy Infrastructure"
sidebar_current: "gettingstarted-destroy"
description: |-
  We've now seen how to build and change infrastructure. Before we move on to creating multiple resources and showing resource dependencies, we're going to go over how to completely destroy the Terraform-managed infrastructure.
---

# Destroy Infrastructure

We've now seen how to build and change infrastructure. Before we
move on to creating multiple resources and showing resource
dependencies, we're going to go over how to completely destroy
the Terraform-managed infrastructure.

Destroying your infrastructure is a rare event in production
environments. But if you're using Terraform to spin up multiple
environments such as development, test, QA environments, then
destroying is a useful action.

## Destroy

Resources can be destroyed using the `terraform destroy` command, which is
similar to `terraform apply` but it behaves as if all of the resources have
been removed from the configuration.

```
$ terraform destroy
# ...

- aws_instance.example
```

The `-` prefix indicates that a the instance will be destroyed. As with apply,
Terraform shows its execution plan and waits for approval before making any
changes.

Answer `yes` to execute this plan and destroy the infrastructure:

```
# ...
aws_instance.example: Destroying...

Apply complete! Resources: 0 added, 0 changed, 1 destroyed.

# ...
```

Just like with `apply`, Terraform determines the order in which
things must be destroyed. In this case there was only one resource, so no
ordering was necessary. In more complicated cases with multiple resources,
Terraform will destroy them in a suitable order to respect dependencies,
as we'll see later in this guide.

## Next

You now know how to create, modify, and destroy infrastructure
from a local machine.

Next, we move on to features that make Terraform configurations
slightly more useful: [variables, resource dependencies, provisioning,
and more](/intro/getting-started/dependencies.html).
