examples/README.md, before:

# Terraform Examples

This folder contains a set of Terraform examples. These examples each
have their own README you can read for more details on what the example
does.

To run any example, just run `terraform apply` within that directory
if you have Terraform checked out. Or, you can run it directly from git:

```
$ terraform init github.com/hashicorp/terraform/examples/cross-provider
...

$ terraform apply
...
```

## Provider-specific Examples

Terraform providers each live in their own repository. Some of these
repositories contain documentation specific to their provider:

* [AliCloud Examples](https://github.com/terraform-providers/terraform-provider-alicloud/tree/master/examples)
* [Amazon Web Services Examples](https://github.com/terraform-providers/terraform-provider-aws/tree/master/examples)
* [Azure Examples](https://github.com/terraform-providers/terraform-provider-azurerm/tree/master/examples)
* [CenturyLink Cloud Examples](https://github.com/terraform-providers/terraform-provider-clc/tree/master/examples)
* [Google Cloud Examples](https://github.com/terraform-providers/terraform-provider-google/tree/master/examples)

Commit message:

examples: Update README to reflect 0.10 init/apply workflow
Previous instructions assumed the pre-0.9 version of init, which served
a different purpose.

examples/README.md, after:

# Terraform Examples

This folder contains a set of Terraform examples. These examples each
have their own README you can read for more details on what the example
does.

To try any example, clone this repository and run the following commands
from within the example's directory:

```
$ terraform init
$ terraform apply
```

## Provider-specific Examples

Terraform providers each live in their own repository. Some of these
repositories contain documentation specific to their provider:

* [AliCloud Examples](https://github.com/terraform-providers/terraform-provider-alicloud/tree/master/examples)
* [Amazon Web Services Examples](https://github.com/terraform-providers/terraform-provider-aws/tree/master/examples)
* [Azure Examples](https://github.com/terraform-providers/terraform-provider-azurerm/tree/master/examples)
* [CenturyLink Cloud Examples](https://github.com/terraform-providers/terraform-provider-clc/tree/master/examples)
* [Google Cloud Examples](https://github.com/terraform-providers/terraform-provider-google/tree/master/examples)
