examples/azure-traffic-manager-vm/README.md, before:

# Azure Traffic Manager with virtual machines

This Terraform template was based on [this](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/tree/master/201-traffic-manager-vm) Azure Quickstart Template. Changes to the ARM template that may have occurred since the creation of this example may not be reflected here.

This template shows how to create an Azure Traffic Manager profile to load-balance across a couple of Azure virtual machines. Each endpoint has an equal weight but different weights can be specified to distribute load non-uniformly.

See also:

- <a href="https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/traffic-manager-routing-methods/">Traffic Manager routing methods</a> for details of the different routing methods available.
- <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/azure/mt163581.aspx">Create or update a Traffic Manager profile</a> for details of the JSON elements relating to a Traffic Manager profile.

## main.tf
The `main.tf` file contains the actual resources that will be deployed. It also contains the Azure Resource Group definition and any defined variables.

## outputs.tf
This data is outputted when `terraform apply` is called, and can be queried using the `terraform output` command.

## provider.tf
Azure requires that an application is added to Azure Active Directory to generate the `client_id`, `client_secret`, and `tenant_id` needed by Terraform (`subscription_id` can be recovered from your Azure account details). Please go [here](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/azurerm/) for full instructions on how to create this to populate your `provider.tf` file.

## terraform.tfvars
If a `terraform.tfvars` file is present in the current directory, Terraform automatically loads it to populate variables. We don't recommend saving usernames and password to version control, but you can create a local secret variables file and use `-var-file` to load it.

If you are committing this template to source control, please insure that you add this file to your `.gitignore` file.

## variables.tf
The `variables.tf` file contains all of the input parameters that the user can specify when deploying this Terraform template.

![`terraform graph`](/examples/azure-traffic-manager-vm/graph.png)

Commit message:

Autoload only .auto.tfvars files

examples/azure-traffic-manager-vm/README.md, after:

# Azure Traffic Manager with virtual machines

This Terraform template was based on [this](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/tree/master/201-traffic-manager-vm) Azure Quickstart Template. Changes to the ARM template that may have occurred since the creation of this example may not be reflected here.

This template shows how to create an Azure Traffic Manager profile to load-balance across a couple of Azure virtual machines. Each endpoint has an equal weight but different weights can be specified to distribute load non-uniformly.

See also:

- <a href="https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/traffic-manager-routing-methods/">Traffic Manager routing methods</a> for details of the different routing methods available.
- <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/azure/mt163581.aspx">Create or update a Traffic Manager profile</a> for details of the JSON elements relating to a Traffic Manager profile.

## main.tf
The `main.tf` file contains the actual resources that will be deployed. It also contains the Azure Resource Group definition and any defined variables.

## outputs.tf
This data is outputted when `terraform apply` is called, and can be queried using the `terraform output` command.

## provider.tf
Azure requires that an application is added to Azure Active Directory to generate the `client_id`, `client_secret`, and `tenant_id` needed by Terraform (`subscription_id` can be recovered from your Azure account details). Please go [here](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/azurerm/) for full instructions on how to create this to populate your `provider.tf` file.

## terraform.tfvars
If a `terraform.tfvars` or any `.auto.tfvars` files are present in the current directory, Terraform automatically loads them to populate variables. We don't recommend saving usernames and password to version control, but you can create a local secret variables file and use the `-var-file` flag or the `.auto.tfvars` extension to load it.

If you are committing this template to source control, please insure that you add this file to your `.gitignore` file.

## variables.tf
The `variables.tf` file contains all of the input parameters that the user can specify when deploying this Terraform template.

![`terraform graph`](/examples/azure-traffic-manager-vm/graph.png)
